HIERARCHICAL NOTEBOOK
	hierarchical notebook (hnb) is program to organize, many kinds of data in one place, for example adresses, todo lists, ideas, book "reviews", brainstorming, organizing a speech, making a  structured packing list random notes, and probably many more I  haven't thought of yet..
HOW TO GET hnb?
	new releases of hnb will appear on the sourceforge project page http://sourceforge.net/projects/hnb/
INSTALLING hnb
	if you've got a source release you must first compile hnb,.. see further down in this file for instructions.
	Windows
		the windows binary distribution, is a .zip file	containing the executable, this readme file, an sample database, and the licence for hnb's use.
		the binary is standalone, so you can just copy it wherever you'd like it to reside.
	Linux 
		the linux binary distribution is a .tar.gz file	containing the executable, this readme file, a an sample database, and the licence for hnb's use.
		the binary is dynamically linked against ncurses just place it anywere in your path.. like /usr/bin, /usr/local/bin or /home/user/bin
COMPILING hnb
	I've only tried to compile hnb using linux, the only dependencies are ncurses so it should compile on most any unix by just typing make.
	I cross compile the win32 binary using mingw32, the Makefile is probably a mess by most standards, but it works for me (tm), and will be replaced by something more appropriate at some other time.
USAGE DOCUMENTATION
	If you start hnb without any parameters and no default database, or with the -t or --tutorial option, hnb will load a special tutorial database.
CHANGELOG
	0.3 15.oct 2000
		fixed registry
		implemented node2path
		first rendition of cgi-bin browser
		wordwrap
		resize components when terminal is resized
		changed display of help at the bottom
		various interface cleanups,.. (ingoring keys etc..)
		pageup/pagedown implemented (jumps a predefined 10 nodes by default)
		changed menu/quit interface,.. there is one big menu now,.
		which contains most of the thinkable options
		it is activated by esc/f1/f10/ctrl+k
	0.4 march 2001
		added registry functions, and a small sample programed called reg
		small bugfix for node recurse()  (go right, and to top)
		fixed tab'ing into children of empty nodes bug
		fixed first node bug of wordwrap
		made wordwrap wrap at end instead of end-indent
	0.5
		help item's update
		added insert capability to insert a node below the current
	0.6b 11 april 2001
		the guadec hacked fixes on strics computer
		
		added search functionality, still not added real keyboard bindings, nor input of needle for the search, but the callbacks are in place
		fixed the display of confirm mode in curses ui.
		implemented reparenting
		cleaned up node remove
		something went wrong in the versioning,.. but what the heck..
		 
		added load,save and display of todo in standard file format
		should be foolproof, and still keeps the file human readable
		when adding a child by navigating,.. the parents node were reset to 0 for no apparent reason.
		changed to bz2 format on distribution file
	0.7 13 april 2001
		rearranged input structures
		added todo checkboxes
		added error mode to display modes
		rewamped the helpline system
		fixed resizing
		added input of search term in find
		made search case insensitive
		refined search control interface
		made todocheckboxes become autocheckin for one level(parent),.. but not recursively yet. but it seeds the idea of what is to come.
	0.8 15 april 2001
		making autoupdate of higher level todo work properly
			recursively move towards root
			only check nodes with visible todo boxes
		ascii export
			just saves the current sublevel of the tree to a file in hnbs standard file format
		html export
			makes an nicely formatted html file with unordered lists,
			doesn't escape any html by itself
		latex export
			in a kind of hackish way, not entirely sure what I could use it for
			requires sed for a nasty replace hack
			doesn't work for deeper nesting levels than four
			won't work in win32,.. (sed fails)
		postscript export
			based on the latex export
			uses system calls and requires latex, and dvips
			won't work in win32 latex export fails and latex dvips etc,.. is unix stuff
		made the default(and only behaviour be to display percentage complete on partially done todo items,.. shouldn't incurr too much overhead,,.. (altough it recalculates for all visible nodes for each character input)
		loading(insertion) of an external file into the data
	0.9 15 april 2001 end of easter holdidays
		undefined keyboard debugging in win32 port
		added in-binary tutorial, and export mode for the include file
		changed curses mode to raw, to avoid ctrl+c, ctrl+s, ctrl+z ctrl+q etc.. aborting the app.
		upon request from Marck Rintsch, ctrl+s now saves the file
		added more visual feedback when saving, quitting and such
		added an standard bullet on all entries.
	1.0 21 april 2001
		bloat
		changed the bullet/indentation system, the bullets are now aligned, children are no longer indicated by trailing dots but by a + bullet instead of - bullet, [ ] removed from nodes which children are partially done.
		when moving a node, the moving is now displayed graphically to give a better feedback to the user.
		renamed moving of node to marking of node,.. now you can also copy the marked node, as well as move it.
		fixed a bug, with checkbox not inherited where it should be.
		changed ctrl+space for marking to ctrl+g in win32 port, I think the win32 port now is fully usable.
		fixed a bug, pertaining to startup with files that don't exist,.. tutorial would show.. even tough it shouldn't
	1.1 10 may 2001
		changed the way children are indicated in the tree to be bold, instead of +/- bullets
		fixed the dragging of nodes,.. uneccesary code prevented moving to the children of the node below the marked
		lots of fixes to the underlying code,.. removed unnecesary reference to tree,.. made it possible to eventually have more than one tree in memory at the same time. this also fixed some bugs with exporting after sorting the main level.
		ran all the files through the following indent filter:
			indent -bad -bap -br -ts4 -ce -ci4 -i4 -cli4 -cbi0 -ss -di0 -nbc -npsl -T Node -brs -ip4 -bbo --line-length78 
		changed the editor cursor
		minor code tweaks and cleanups all around
		made warnings and infos just stay on screen,.. not cleaning after delay
		fixed an error with regard to temporary nodes when using tabcompletion/right arrow
		fixed segfault due to buggines in mark/move/copy
		added manpage provieded by Andras BALI
		added comments around in the code.
	1.2 12 may 2001
		changed the editing, and the cursor even further towards 'standard' use, fixed a editing bug as well.
		added mouse navigation, and 'shortcut-emulation'
		code cleanups
BUGS
	as soon as I find them, and am able to fix them, I remove them from this file,.. so no bugs :P
TODO
	buffer limits
		they are high,.. but somebody typing a biiig node could crash it
	gtk 2.0
		there is a new interface to bind things so I can use my own codestructue :))
	make default format xml, and move the current format into an text export/import filter thing.
		perhaps the text filter should be kind of enhanced from the current format,.. but backwards compatible,.. add bullets, and ability to use newline within a node?
	more entities on each node
		current entities:
			title/data
			todo item
			done/not done
		future items:
			created date
			modified date
			note(why not a subnode,.. "that's a hack"?!)
			due date, for project planning
			priority
			make an own details dialog for each node to modify such things.. it will be easier than loads of shortcuts,.. (I think)
			cronological id
	purge todo items on lower levels
	shuffle action
	tin like confirm mode
		display [N] in bold,..
		pressing Y returns Yes
		pressing N returns N
		up toggles Y
		down toggles N
		left cancels
		right says yes
	configuration
		different collapse modes?
			only display first line of parents?
		bulletmodes
			bullet, number, abcd, ABCD, checkbox, none
	curses interface
		"context" menu for mouse mode
		pageup/pagedown implementation with pushing of up/down
author: Øyvind Kolås / pippin@users.sourceforge.net
